The President:
This week, a new economic report
confirmed what most Americans
already believe to be true:
over the past three decades,
the middle class has lost ground
while the wealthiest few have
become even wealthier.
In fact, the average income for
the top 1% of Americans has
risen almost seven times faster
than the income of the average
middle class family.
And this has happened during
a period where the cost of
everything from health care
to college has skyrocketed.
Now, in this country, we don't
begrudge anyone wealth or
success -- we encourage it.
We celebrate it.
But America is better off when
everyone had the chance to get
ahead -- not just those at the
very top of the income scale.
The more Americans who prosper,
the more America prospers.
Rebuilding an economy where
everyone has the chance to
succeed will take time.
Our economic problems were
decades in the making,
and they won't be
solved overnight.
But there are steps we can take
right now to put people back to
work and restore some of the
security that middle-class
Americans have lost over
the last few decades.
Right now, Congress can pass
a set of common-sense jobs
proposals that independent
economists tell us will boost
the economy right away.
Proposals that will put
more teachers, veterans,
construction workers and first
responders back on the job.
Proposals that will cut taxes
for virtually every middle class
family and small
business in America.
These are the same kinds of
proposals that both Democrats
and Republicans have
supported in the past.
And they should stop playing
politics and act on them now.
These jobs proposals are also
paid for by asking folks who are
making more than a million
dollars a year to contribute a
little more in taxes.
These are the same folks who
have seen their incomes go up so
much, and I believe this
is a contribution they're
willing to make.
One survey found that nearly 7
in 10 millionaires are willing
to step up and pay a little more
in order to help the economy.
Unfortunately, Republicans
in Congress aren't
paying attention.
They haven't gotten the message.
Over and over, they have refused
to even debate the same kinds of
jobs proposals that Republicans
have supported in the past --
proposals that
today are supported,
not just by Democrats, but
by Independent and Republican
voters all across America.
Somehow, though, they found time
this week to debate things like
whether or not we should mint
coins to celebrate the Baseball
Hall of Fame.
And meanwhile, they're only
scheduled to work three more
weeks between now and
the end of the year.
The truth is, we can no longer
wait for Congress to do its job.
The middle-class families who
have been struggling for years
are tired of waiting.
They need help now.
So where Congress
won't act, I will.
This week, we announced a new
policy that will help families
whose home values have fallen to
refinance their mortgages and
save thousands of dollars.
We're making it easier for
veterans to get jobs putting
their skills to work in
hospitals and community
health centers.
We reformed the student loan
process so more young people can
get out of debt faster.
And we're going to keep
announcing more changes like
these on a regular basis.
These steps will
make a difference.
But they won't take the place
of the bold action we need from
Congress to get this
economy moving again.
And that's why I need all of
you to make your voices heard.
Tell Congress to stop playing
politics and start taking
action on jobs.
If we want to rebuild an economy
where every American has the
chance to get ahead, then we're
going to need every American to
get involved.
That's how real change
has always happened,
and that's how
it'll happen today.
Thanks.